 
   
    

Blue-sky printing

There are many reasons for using Prince. We will show you 8.

= E —_— led

JavaScript three: CS$3 columns =

 

Prince supports JavaScript so that programmers can This document is laid out in two columns on the
Ben achieve effects not possible in HTML and CSS along. first page. The next pages are more narrow and
For example, this document has a small script that au- therefore only has room for one column. The
tomatically generates a table of contents: number of columns is automatically adjusted based
on the available width.

JavaScript... eeeeeeeeees 1 CSS3 transforma........... 1

More JavaScript.......... 1 Background images.....2

CSS3 columns ............. 1 CSS3 selectors............. 2 4 = St |

Styling pages... 1 More transforms......... 2 a y I ng p age S

The second page of this document is different from the first: it’s up
t P M 7 right and it has no background image. This is achieved by styling
WO : 0 re ava C rl pt pages instead of elements.
This document lists 8 numbered features. Notice that the
first three features are numbered with spelled-out numbers,
while the rest use digits. This is achieved with a small script 4) a CSS 3 t ra nl sfo rim S
that exchanges digits for letters when the number is three or
smaller.

 

CSS3 introduces transforms, which can be used to scale and

 

 
—}—
XY

rotate elements. «Prince» is rotated 90 degerees on the right.
Also, it has been moved to a margin box so that it appears
outside the normal text flow.

6: Background images

The image on the right is used as the
background image on the first page.
There, only part of the image is visible.
This is achieved by carefully setting the
position and pixel-density of the image.
Also, notice how the background image is
«bleeding»; it extends slightly outside the
page to avoid white edges when the paper
is cut.

CSS3 selectors

Notice how every other item in our list of eight is in italics. This is achieved by
selecting and styling even-numbered items.

 

Pri

8: More transforms

Transforms can be applied to images as well as text. Below is the blue-sky background image rotated at various angles.

 
